Add oidc trust docs (#4188)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/docs/pulumi-cloud/oidc/client/_index.md

---
title_tag: OpenID Connect Client Integration for Pulumi
meta_desc: This page provides an overview of how to configure OpenID Connect integration between
           third party OIDC Providers and Pulumi.
title: OpenID Client
h1: OpenID Connect integration
meta_image: /images/docs/meta-images/docs-meta.png
menu:
    pulumicloud:
        parent: openid-connect
        identifier: openid-connect-client
        weight: 4
---

> Pulumi supports establishing trust relationships with third party OIDC providers by leveraging id_tokens and allowing it to be exchanged by a short-lived Pulumi access token. This mechanism enhances security by eliminating the necessity for hardcoded credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulumi supports establishing trust relationships with third party OIDC providers by leveraging id_tokens and allowing it to be exchanged for a short-lived Pulumi access token. This mechanism enhances security by eliminating the necessity for hardcoded credentials.
```

Reviewer: I have seen this concept of avoiding the need for "secret zero" in docs across industry. Should we allude to that for SEO purposes?

Author: I will add something about that

Author: got into the buzz word train and added zero trust to the mix too, let me know what do you think

## Overview

> For third party services that have capabilities to issue OIDC id_tokens, it is possible to register them as a trusted OICD Issuer to leverage these tokens to be exchanged by a short-lived Pulumi access token automatically to avoid having to store hardcoded credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For third party services that have capabilities to issue OIDC id_tokens, it is possible to register them as a trusted OIDC Issuer to leverage these tokens to be exchanged by a short-lived Pulumi access token automatically to avoid having to store hardcoded credentials.
```

1. Use OpenSSL to fetch the certificates used by the issuer. From the following example, replace example.com with the issuer URL

   ```bash
   openssl s_client -servername example.com -showcerts -connect example.com:443
   ```

1. From its output, look for the certificate returned (if there is more than one, look for the first one) and copy it to a file named “certificate.crt”
1. Calculate the certificate digest (SHA256) by running the following command

   ```bash
   openssl x509 -in certificate.crt -fingerprint -sha256 -noout

   > sha256 Fingerprint=2B:60:30:08:8E:8D:08:FC:D6:1B:8B:89:70:19:F2:D9:9F:4B:9A:0F:7B:46:5B:06:5C:2B:90:E1:C5:3B:C0:7D
   ```

1. Remove all the colon (:) characters and copy the result

   ```
   2B6030088E8D08FCD61B8B897019F2D99F4B9A0F7B465B065C2B90E1C53BC07D
   ```

1. Use that value to configure the issuer thumbprints. If multiple certificates are used to serve content from that route, a digest for each of those certificates is required.

### Configure the authorization policies

When a new OIDC issuer is registered, a default authorization policy is provisioned denying any token exchange. Explicitly configuring **allow** policies is required.

> When configuring a policy, it needs to explicitly call out what kind of token can be requested as well what team or user it will be scoped to for such token types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When configuring a policy, it is required to explicitly state what kind of token can be requested and what team or user the token should be scoped to.
```

It is also required to configure at least one claim validation rule. When defining the claim key, it is possible to target nested claims by defining the claim path. For example, having the following structure:

```json
{
  "aud": [
    "urn:pulumi:ORG_NAME"
  ],
  "exp": ...,
  "iat": ...,
  "iss": "https://container.googleapis.com/v1/projects/sample/locations/us-west1/clusters/sample",
  "kubernetes.io": {
    "namespace": "default",
    "pod": {
      "name": "runner-ddfaa34e-dfrjh",
      "uid": "b99b58df-cce5-405a-a33d-49a4cf8cf7bd"
    },
    "serviceaccount": {
      "name": "default",
      "uid": "5993991f-ee08-4eaf-b5a8-714b71739058"
    }
  },
  "nbf": ...,
  "sub": "system:serviceaccount:default:default"
}
```

> You can target the pool name by defining the path as `"kubernetes.io".pod.name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can target the pod name by defining the path as `"kubernetes.io".pod.name`.
```

Author: lol I have PTSD after deployment runners, I see pools everywhere

> Note the use of quotes to scape dots in the object keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the use of quotes to escape dots in the object keys.
```
